on October 7th Hamas launched a barrage
of rockets from Gaza followed by a
coordinated incursion into Israel by
Hamas Fighters scores of unarmed
civilians were killed and many taken
hostage in response to the attack
Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu swore
quote a mighty Vengeance against the
group Israel has since retaliated with a
Complete Siege of Gaza launching air
strikes that raised entire districts
killing hundreds and injuring thousands
in the Palestinian Enclave on today's
show we'll delve deep into the conflict
coming up in the second half of the show
we'll speak to the former deputy foreign
minister for Israel and former foreign
policy adviser to Netanyahu Danny Ione
with us first is senior spokesperson for
Hamas Osama
Haman Osama Hamden senior spokesperson
for Hamas thank you so much for joining
me on UPF front thank you on October 7th
Hamas launched an attack uh when they
fired thousands of rockets into Israel
uh militants entered the country and
took scores of civilians hostage
including women children and the elderly
while the right of resistance is
absolutely secured for all occupied
people under international law the use
of force is not unlimited and targeting
civilians and taking hostages are war
crimes how can you justify attacking
civilian
targets well thank you for having me
first of all I have to say that this is
the uh story from the Israeli side which
is not really true I have to turn you to
Oren Z who is an Israeli journalist he
was today inar Aza settlement and he
said there is no evidences that Hamas
slaughtered children I'm sorry that the
Israeli government is using that to
commit its crimes in Gaza so this is
this is the first part of the answer we
have also some Israelis are telling this
is not happened and it's used it's a St
story fake story used to kill more
Palestinians but this is but the
question was how do you justify
attacking civilian targets that was the
actual question one second no no the
question was how can you justify
attacking civilian targets you are
asking their own question no no no the
question was how can you justify
attacking civilian targets you are
asking you are asking the question we we
may disagree on what the right question
is but but I do want I would like you to
answer this question how do you justify
attacking civilian Targets this is our
own question I I'm not going to the same
game of the Israelis I'm asking a very
clear question about civilians let let
me ask a very direct question have any
civilians been killed well I don't know
exactly because this is what told by the
Israelis what I'm telling you that
for this Israeli government you just
cited Orin Z he says civilians were
killed no he didn't say he he said no
evidence that children he were slaugh I
don't know he said doz of he said dozens
of bodies of Israelis murdered in their
homes excuse me those were his words you
are you are wasting the time it's your
time it's not my time you are wasting
the time all right let's pause for a
moment sir my question is if you find
out that civilians have been killed
would you consider that justified or
would you consider that
unjustified there is 300 children have
been killed today in Gaza by the
Israelis 200 women have been killed
today Day by the Israelis in Gaza
1,200 children were injured 1,000 women
were injured today just today and
yesterday in Gaza you are asking me the
wrong question you have to ask about
what is happening in Gaza which is under
the siege for the last 17 years which
which is under the offensive Israeli
attack for the last four days you keep
asking about the Israelis why you don't
ask about the
Palestinians a that's a fair
question sir sir sir that is a fair
question that excuse me I have to
continue you are asking about the
Israelis you don't ask about the
Palestinians no one cares about the
Palestinians this is the story the story
is the occupation 75 years of occupation
for the Palestinians we have to talk
about the occupation and how the
Palestinians are looking to for this
occupation and how can we make an end
for this incubation this is the story
it's not the story about what you are
asking about okay I I I understand your
perspective to be clear after this
interview I will be interviewing a
representative of the Israeli military
and I will be asking him about Israel's
war crimes I absolutely acknowledge that
Israel has committed war crimes in fact
I have written a book with a whole
chapter about Gaza and the and the war
crimes that have committed against Gaza
there so please do not suggest to to me
that I do not take this issue seriously
however however let me finish I allowed
you thank you for iow you finish thank
you for the
clarifying but I so now that we clarify
that let me let me can't compare I okay
I'm not comparing any I'm not comparing
anything but please allow me to finish
my question for you is is is everyone
living inside of a settlement a a
legitimate military Target for
Hamas according to the international law
the settlers are not civilian so sir
again uh human rights organizations have
said the legal status of settlements
under International uh humanitarian law
does not negate the rights of the
civilians living there the fact that a
person lives in a settlement whether
legal or not does not make him or her a
legitimate military Target so getting in
light of the fact that human rights
organizations would argue that even if
settlements are illegal the people
living inside of them are still
considered civilians how do you see
moving forward uh hamas's vision of
whether or not settlements are
legitimate military targets
well uh the legitimate thing which I
believe in that Palestine Is Our Land
our people are living on our land
challenging the occupation for the last
75 years on those 75 years the women the
children were killed by the Israeli
Soldiers the Israeli settlers their
Homeland was taken they were replaced by
Israelis who came from everywhere in the
world they talk different languages and
they claim that this land is for them if
you ask any one of them about the grave
of his father he will take you to Poland
or to Argentina but if you ask any
Palestinian about the grave of his 17th
grandfather he will take you to some
place in Palestine showing you the
graves telling you this is where my 17th
grandfather was buried or maybe before
that we are in this land from the days
of Jesus Christ don't ask me about the
those settlers and those soldiers who
are killing my people every every day
every time and this is the fact which
creates the resistance of the
Palestinians the Palestinians did not
start the war let's talk about uh the
Israeli response uh to the Hamas attack
which has been horrific uh Israel is
bombing R and declared a Complete Siege
uh it's cut off uh food Fuel and water
from being admitted to over two million
people thousands of Palestinians are
going to die uh one resident from Ken
yunice said this is a bloody war that is
different from previous Wars what is
going on right now is total
Annihilation we see this horrific
response by the Israeli government my
question for you is uh have the actions
of Hamas over the past week made things
worse for Palestinians on the ground the
Israelis have done this before they done
that in 2014 14 they they cut the
electricity from Gaza in 2014 for 17
days they cut the the AIDS for the
hospitals uh in 2014 2,500 Palestinians
were killed in
2021 more than 1,000 Palestinians were
killed no one remembers the the numbers
because they are only Palestinians but I
want to tell you they were shocked by
what had happened to their army 11 11
points
military points were attacked by the
militants of Hamas the soldiers were
killed or being taken as War prisoners
and the Israelis were shocked this is
the main troops attacking Gaza for the
last 10 years they fall down in a few
hours this is the shook they want to get
back the image of Israel army they want
to show everyone that Israel can destroy
everyone that's an interesting point sir
that's that's an important Point you're
making you're saying that Israel uh sort
of commits to a certain kind of response
when it looks bad that Israel
responds
disproportionately and that Israel
already wants to use uh this as a
pretext for destroying the Palestinian
people I'm saying if you know that's
going to happen
then how do you calculate the decision
to launch an attack knowing that a
University is going to be bombed knowing
that power is going to be cut off
knowing that fuel's going to be cut off
knowing that people are going to die
because of the Israeli response if you
know that why do you still make the uh
the attack particularly when the
Palestinian people don't have a say in
whether or not that's going to
happen this is a good question you know
uh the fact that the Israelis are
killing the Palestinians on all the ways
all the times for example in W Bank in
the last 10 months more than 500
Palestinians were killed most of them
were civilians they were shooted in the
streets just demonstrating peacefully
against the Israeli troops the fact
which everyone have to understand is
that this occupation is killing the
Palestinians all the time he's not
giving them any chance to have normal
life he's not giving them the chance to
be independent and to have their
independent sovereign state even after
30 years of s signature of Oso agreement
he's not implementing any International
resolutions he doesn't care about the
international law so we are uh facing
this fact the Israelis are killing you
if you are treat treating them
peacefully or if you are resisting them
and at the end of the day the occupation
is still there so it's better to resist
than being slaughtered daily without
even resisting the occupation what was
the goal of last week's actions what was
the what was the immediate goal of last
week's actions what what would you say
the Target or goal was the goal the goal
the the goal is to make an end for the
Israeli attacks against the Palestinians
to make an end for the Israeli attacks
on Jerusalem ala in West Bank taking
over the lands and to lift the SI on
Gaza the Israelis are planning for a
long a long occupation on Palestine and
I think if they don't get the lesson
from what had happened the last four
days this Army will not protect them
their violence will not protect them
even if they were supported by the
United States if they want to be
protected they have to acknowledge the
Palestinian rights and to implement the
international resolutions which gave the
Palestinian people their rights without
negotiations those are rights no one can
negotiate our
rights thank you so much for joining me
on up front thank
you we tried repeatedly to get an
Israeli Army spokesperson on the show to
respond to Hamas but they canceled the
scheduled interviews
for more on the developments in Gaza we
are joined by Israel's former deputy
foreign minister and a former foreign
policy adviser to Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu Danny
Ione Danny Ione thank you so much for
joining me on UPF front my pleasure
Danny last Saturday the 7th Hamas
launched a devastating attack thousands
of rockets were fired towards Israel and
hundreds of Hamas Fighters crossed into
the country uh there are reports of
horrific killings of Israeli
civilians a clear clear violation of
international law uh in response uh
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu threatened to turn the Gaza
Strip into quote rubble and the
government announced a quote Complete
Siege of The Enclave since then we've
seen Mass bombing in Gaza with reports
that hundreds of civilians have been
killed and while the actions of Hamas
are a clear and I want to emphasize that
a clear violation of international law
isn't the collective punishment of all
gazin also by definition a war crime not
really because the situation is very
clear you know as you mentioned rightly
so Hamas perpetrated a um an attack
which was a surprise attack the IDF was
caught un on unprepared and they got a
major victory for the first 24 hours but
who was this Victory against babies and
children and all families that were
massacred in bed the IDF was nowhere to
be seen when the IDF came back now they
push them back into the Gaza now the
problem with Hamas is that they're
committing a double um War crime because
they are targeting only slovenians and
they're using their own civilians the
poor Palestinian of Gaza as human
Shields and what Israel did gave them a
fair warning and I think this is the
only way to do with them is we told the
uh the gazan people to clear the area
temporarily so we can go and take Kamas
out and then of course they can come
back so this by the definition is not a
war crime we understand the plight of
the Palestinians they deserve their
dignity and everything else but nothing
justifies butchering families you know
this day as you mentioned 7th of October
was the day that more Jews were killed
in 24 hours than any other day since the
Holocaust so you see I mean without
without without question respectfully
this this is a devastating uh moment uh
an extraordinary act of violence that
that again is a violation of
international law but you said a couple
of things that that I want to push that
I want to push you on uh the idea of
collective punishment is one of the
things that we're talking about here uh
electricity has been cut power has been
cut fuel has been cut the the gazen
people right now are being punished for
the actions of Hamas how is that not by
definition Collective
punishment two two things uh
first of all Hamas has turned Gaza into
an enemy state so there is no law
nothing in international law that uh uh
compels a country you are uh in in a war
with to supply them the the electricity
now what do they use the electricity for
as as as an OCC as an as an occupying
power international law does say that
you have certain responsibilities by law
uh but but but but before we get there
even if we we'll hold it for a moment
the power thing uh there are residential
buildings being hit there are hospitals
being hit this is a densely populated
area the idea of being able to run away
or to escape or go to a safe area seems
impossible also according to your own
military uh Representatives you've
abandoned the idea of knocking on rofes
that is say to say giving uh a warning
of dropping a non- explosive munition on
buildings before people go so people
aren't getting a warning they have
nowhere to go residential buildings
schools and hospitals are being hit how
is this not again an act of collective
punishment and how is this not a target
of Civilian unless of course you're
regarding everybody in Gaza as an enemy
combatant okay well I hear you I hear
you but again what we gave the
population is a fair warning what would
you do you know what what was the is the
fair warning this I just want to make
sure we're on the same page here uh
Benjamin Netanyahu told everyone to
leave the area where were they to
go okay very very I mean this was this
is thought out it's not something that
we tell them go uh go to the beaches go
drawn yourselves God forbid not at all
there is a huge expense almost endless
space in the Sinai desert just on the
other side of Gaza the idea is and this
is not the first time it will be done
the idea is for them to live over to the
open areas where we and the
International Community will uh prepare
the infrastructure you know 10 cities
with food and with water you know what
just like for the refugees of Syria that
fled the butchering of Assad few years
ago to Turkey Turkey received two
million of them this is the idea now
Egypt will have to play ball here
because once the the population is out
of sight then we can go you know what
the pal what the what Hamas did you know
when the you said the population out of
sight is that practically possible in
such a densely populated area and and 40
I mean you have 2 million people in a
densely populated Enclave 47% of the
inhabitants are children is it
reasonable or plausible to to think that
all those people are going to relocate
to this ex excluded area and be safe
from from from a bombing attack and
again the war we're saying there's
warnings but there are numerous reports
on the ground that there are no warnings
that people are getting hit that
families have been killed from these
attacks uh I'll tell you in a practical
manner what we should do and what we can
do create like in the past in history a
humanitarian Corridor when there is a
humanitarian Corridor and we have been
discussing this with the United States
uh then we can guarantee in this
Corridor that nobody will get hurt now
again I say there is a way to receive
them all on the other side for temporary
time on on S because what did Hamas turn
out on the other side we talking about
RAF are you the other side that go to
Egypt yes absolutely absolutely and
Egypt will have to play ball because
this is human life is at stake if
something human life is at stake because
you're cutting off power you're you're
shutting down hospitals you're bombing
residential buildings right now there is
a hospital that has not does not have
sufficient power there is a hospital
where people are literally going to die
and israeli's energy uh Minister uh
Israel cat said said no electrical
switch will be turned on no hydrant will
be open no fuel truck will enter until
the Israeli abductees are returned home
now the icrc spokesperson Hisham Mahana
said that by cutting that power
hospitals are going to turn into
graveyards this is not an ideologue this
is the international Committee of the
Red Cross they're saying that because of
your country's actions not the actions
of Hamas not the actions of Egypt but
because of Israel's actions the
hospitals are going to turn into
graveyards how is that not a war crime
how is that defensible by any standard
first of all the war crime if anything
is Hamas they are the ones and I know
exactly what you're talking about Hamas
does not allow sometimes when they can
they keep those civilians captive they
don't allow them to run away because
this is what they want now I know the
area and I'm I suppose you're talking
about the main hospital which is the
shifa hospital the shifa hospital has
been turned into to a Hamas bunker if
Hamas wants to save them they should
just leave their arms come out and
nothing will happen but as long as they
keep the shifa hospital just like uh
schools and kindergartens as bunkers and
they fight out from there there is no
law there is no law in this universe
that protects them and this is what
we're doing and this is why the world is
is is there are there any independent
reports are there any intelligence
reports that show that the shifer
hospital is it is is it h is primarily
Hamas bunker and not an actual medical
site yes and you know what where you
know
where and mark my words and and you can
show it again because I know it's it's
recorded when this war is over and we
will bring in the international press to
shifa and to all the bankers the
underground tunnels that Hamas is
created in Gaza ask intelligence
Services of every country in the world
they know it but anyway what I'm saying
is no no no just to be clear for the
audience's benefit no intelligence
Services has claimed that not one
government has claimed that the shifer
hospital is a is a Hamas bunker that is
your claim and I want to make be very
clear that that is your claim and you're
saying you don't have any reports but
that I should just trust
you no Mark your words trust you and
later on it'll prove be proven
true I'm telling you everybody will see
okay after the war is fair enough I have
I have to move on just in the interest
of time but but I want I want to
continue on the same vein because the
Secretary General of the UN Antonio
gutterz said that he was deeply
distressed by Israel Israel's
announcement of a Siege on the Gaza
Strip he said that the humanitarian
situation quote will only deteriorate
exponentially and that crucial
life-saving supplies including fuel food
and water must be allowed into Gaza so
the UN is saying You must do this you
are saying you're not going to do this
um how do no we're not we're not saying
that he's saying do he's saying doing it
immediately what I'm saying is what you
what you doing he's saying doing do do
it immediately I yeah I got you I'll
tell you exactly what we're saying
I'm saying we will do everything for the
gazan people once and now we demand
immediate surrender unconditional
surrender of Kamas if Hamas people come
out with their hands up and clear their
weapons believe me everything will be
restored to Gaza it is Hamas in Hamas
hands okay now I understand thank you
for clarifying that sir I I I think I
think I think we're actually on the same
page here you're saying that once Hamas
leaves you'll you'll Grant the the the
guys and people food shelter fuel
electricity Hospital schooling and if
they don't and if Hamas doesn't leave
then they'll continue to starve and die
in hospitals you are defining for the
International Community right now
Collective punishment you're saying
until until Hamas acts differently the
two million people in Gaza are going to
be treated this way and once Hamas acts
differently these two million people in
Gaza will be treated better that is
exactly what Collective punishment is
you're holding them accountable for the
actions of others that is the definition
the textbook definition of of of
collective punishment sir now you may
you you may accept that that's what you
want to do but this is absolutely a
contravention of international
law well I'll tell you exactly no had we
had no if we had we pushed into the wall
not pushing them to the wall we want to
open a humanitarian Corridor so they can
leave but if Hamas so that who can leave
so that who can leave
citizens you're saying civilians can
leave but only through the Rafa border
correct at this point yes so they can't
where isse your country they can come
into
Israel I'm telling you one more thing I
want to say I want you to I want you to
address that point don't just smile sir
respectfully you're saying they you're
making a corridor they can go to they
can go to Egypt you're bombing them you
say you want to save them but you they
can't come
in first of all I'm not smiling I'm
crying in my heart I'm crying in my
heart for All The Butchery of thousands
of Israelis why do you think the world
is with us why why do you think the
world is wise all the international
media was there so don't talk to me
about Collective punishment don't talk
to me about humanitarian these are new
rules of the game there is no
coexistence with Hamas which is worse
than Isis and we will not stop we are
allowing the population to leave but if
Hamas will surrender there won't be any
problem whatsoever Danny alone thank you
so much for joining me on up
front
pleasure all right that is our show up
front we'll be back next
[Music]
week